---
layout: post
date: 2022-06-10 12:00:00-0400
title: Dependable Automated Program Repair
tag: project
---

### Overview

<p>
<b>Motivation:</b> Automated Program Repair is an emerging technology to alleviate the onerous burden of manually fixing bugs on developers. A substantial number of APR techniques have been proposed over the years with several breakthroughs that inspired potential practical adoption of APR. Unfortunately, <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.13064.pdf"> developer's trust on APR-generated patches is still a challenge </a> for achieving greater adoption of APR on industry. 
</p>
<p>
<b>Approach:</b> This theme aim not only to enhance the trust of developer on APR-generated patches by providing supporting artifacts/information/evidents about APR-generated patches but also to investigate unknown issues regarding the trustworthiness of APR systems. 
<li>
<b>Overifitting</b>: My current focus on this theme is <i>overfitting problem,</i> in which APR-generated patches can satisfy APR-defined correctness specifications, e.g. test suites, but is still incorrect. As unreliable overfitting patches cause developers to lose trust in APR tools, overfitting problem is an important challenge in trust enhancement of APR systems.
To address this problem, my colleagues and I have proposed <a href="./pdf/TSE_Invalidator.pdf"> Invalidator (TSE'23)</a> an automated method to reason the correctness of APR-generated patches via program invariants and code representations. We further developed <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00202.pdf"> PatchZero (Submitted to TSE) </a>, that ultilized large pre-trained code models along with an Instance-wise Tailored Demonstration and an In-context Learning Inference for a zero-shot setting, in which the patches generated by a new/unseen APR tool.
</li>
<li>
<b>Explainability</b>: Beside, I am also interested in self-explainable APR systems. Particularly, I want to create APR systems that can automatically providing explanations about their generated patches. I am still hunting for good ideas on this direction. 
</li>
</p>

### Related Publications

1. **[TSE'23] Invalidator: Automated Patch Correctness Assessment via Semantic and Syntactic Reasoning** 
   - **Authors**: <strong style="color: black;">Thanh Le-Cong</strong>, Duc-Minh Luong, Bach Le, David Lo, Nhat Hoa Tran, Quang Huy Bui and Quyet Thang Huynh
   - **Venue**: IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 
   - **Links**: <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10066209">[DOI]</a> <a href="./pdf/TSE_Invalidator.pdf">[PDF]</a>  <a href="https://github.com/thanhlecongg/Invalidator">[Code]</a>.
   - **One-line Abstraction**: Reasoning about the correctness of APR-generated patches via program invariants and code representation learning.

5. **[ICSME'22] FFL: Fine-grained Fault Localization for Student Programs via Syntactic and Semantic Reasoning**
   - **Authors**: Thanh-Dat Nguyen, <strong style="color: black;">Thanh Le-Cong</strong>, Duc-Minh Luong, Van-Hai Duong, Bach Le, David Lo, and Quyet-Thang Huynh
   - **Venue**: IEEE 38th International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME) 2022, Research Track
   - **Links**: [[DOI]](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9978180/) [[PDF]](./pdf/ICSME_FFL.pdf) [[Code]](https://github.com/FFL2022/FFL)
   - **Acceptance Rate:** 23%
   - **One-line Abstract:** Automatically identifying fault locations in student programs by applying Graph Neural Network on a fine-grained graph-based representation of the program, which combines AST with test coverage information.

6. **[ISSRE'21] Usability and Aesthetics: Better Together for Automated Repair of Web Pages**
   - **Authors**: <strong style="color: black;">Thanh Le-Cong</strong>, Bach Le, Quyet-Thang Huynh, and Phi Le Nguyen
   - **Venue**: IEEE 32nd International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE) 2021, Research Track
   - **Links**: [[DOI]](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9700390/) [[PDF]](./pdf/ISSRE21.pdf)
   - **Acceptance Rate:** 27%
   - **One-line Abstract:** Automatically repairing mobile-unfriendly web pages using Evolutionary Optimization.